Add MediaStreamTrack insertable media processing article (#5092)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/mediastreamtrack-insertable-media-processing/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Insertable streams for MediaStreamTrack
subhead: |
  The contents of MediaStreamTrack objects exposed as a collection of streams so they can be manipulated
  to introduce new components.
authors:
  - thomassteiner

> date: 2021-04-28

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2021-05-03
```

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the
[capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will
be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

In the context of the
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
the [`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack)
interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist as well.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output. A `MediaStream` object generated by
[`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is

> called local, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A remote

Reviewer: I thought I had asked this in my review. Sorry for messing up.

Should this be 'called locally' instead of 'called local'?

Author: Oh, I see the confusion. Not "called locally", but "called a local `MediaStream`".

> called local, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A remote

Author: ```suggestion
called a local `MediaStream`, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A remote
```

`MediaStream` may be representing to a media element, like `<video>` or `<audio>`, a stream
originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC
[`RTCPeerConnection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection) API, or a
stream created using the Web Audio API
[`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode).

## What is insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`?

The core idea for insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is to expose the content of a
`MediaStreamTrack` as a collection of [streams](/streams/) (as defined by the WHATWG

> [Streams API](https://streams.spec.whatwg.org/)), which can be manipulated to introduce new

Author: ```suggestion
[Streams API](https://streams.spec.whatwg.org/)). These streams can be manipulated to introduce new
```

> components.

Author: ```suggestion
components.

Granting developers access to the video (or audio) stream directly allows them to apply modifications
directly to the stream, rather than, for example, for the case of video manipulation,
force them to go through intermediates like `<canvas>` objects, as outlined in this
multi-step [article](https://html5doctor.com/video-canvas-magic/).
```

enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Feature detection

You can feature-detect insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` support as follows.

```js
if ('MediaStreamTrackProcessor' in window && 'MediaStreamTrackGenerator' in window) {
  // Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is supported.
}
```

### Core concepts

Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` builds on concepts previously proposed by
[WebCodecs](https://web.dev/webcodecs/) and conceptually splits the `MediaStreamTrack` into two
components:

- The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates a stream
  of media frames ([`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)). You can think of this as a
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track to a `ReadableStream`
  and that exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.
- The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a `MediaStreamTrack`

>   interface, so that it can be used anywhere a `MediaStreamTrack` is currently attached. It takes

Author: ```suggestion
  interface, so that it can be used in any sink a `MediaStreamTrack` is currently attached to. It takes
```

  connected to the `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`. Control signals are objects of type
  `MediaStreamTrackSignal`.

In the `MediaStream` model, apart from media, which flows from sources to sinks, there are also
control signals that flow in the opposite direction (i.e., from sinks to sources via the track). A
`MediaStreamTrackProcessor` is a sink and it allows sending control signals to its track and source
via its `writableControl` field. A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` is a track for which a custom source
can be implemented by writing media frames to its `writable` field. Such a source can receive
control signals sent by sinks via its `readableControl` field.

### Bringing it all together

The core idea is to create a processing chain as follows:

```bash
Platform Track → Processor → Transform → Generator → Platform Sinks
```

For a barcode scanner application, this chain would look as in the code sample below.

```js
const stream = await getUserMedia({ video: true });
const videoTrack = stream.getVideoTracks()[0];

const trackProcessor = new TrackProcessor(videoTrack);
const trackGenerator = new TrackGenerator();

> const transformer = new TransformStream({

Reviewer 2: An example of how people used to do this without `TrackProcessor` and `TrackGenerator` may be helpful to readers to highlight the new thing.

Author: Let me link to https://html5doctor.com/video-canvas-magic/, which explains the steps.

>   async transform(videoFrame, controller) {

Reviewer 2: Nit: `async` can be removed if `detectBarcodes(videoFrame)` is sync.
However, I think `await` should be added before `detectBarcodes(videoFrame)` as it's more likely this operation is async.

Author: Awaiting barcodes now :-)

    const barcodes = detectBarcodes(videoFrame);

>     const newFrame = highlightBarcodes(videoFrame.data, barcodes);

Reviewer 2: Is `videoFrame.data` even a thing?
I can't find it in https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface

Author: Good catch, it was meant as the imageBitmap data in the spec I think. I just pass the whole frame now.

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the
[capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will
be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

In the context of the
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
the [`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack)
interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist as well.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output. A `MediaStream` object generated by
[`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is

> called local, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A non-local

Author: ```suggestion
called local, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A remote
```

  to introduce new components.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2021-04-26
description: |
  Insertable streams for MediaStreamTrack expose the contents of a MediaStreamTrack as a collection
  of streams (as defined by the WHATWG Streams API), which can be manipulated to introduce new
  components.
hero: image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/Qu2wfQ3pxR8AeEfty88S.jpg
alt: Cup of coffee and a laptop with a video conference running showing many participants.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - media
  - capabilities
---

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the
[capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will
be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

The
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API),
often called the Media Streams API or MediaStream API, is an API related to
[WebRTC](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) which provides support for
streaming audio and video data.

> The API is based on the manipulation of a

Reviewer 3: Can you flip this section around to focus on the MediaStreamTrack, and just mention briefly at the end that a MediaStream is a collection of audio and video tracks, used to connect MediaStreamTracks to an HTML video element?

Many argue that the MediaStream was a design mistake, and we should focus our APIs on MediaStreamTracks; the MST transform API was heavily influenced by this, so the focus should be on MediaStreamTracks in this article.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/5092/commits/d014d7d54703c7fe0b256dfcbc30756e373645db.

Reviewer 3: You still start off with Mediastream and introduce MediaStreamTrack later.
I want you to start off with MediaStreamTrack and have a closing paragraph mentioning MediaStream.

Author: The idea was to explain top down the concepts. I’ll see what I can do tomorrow.

Author: @alvestrand, PTAL. As of https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/5092/commits/a787026b2d799f3e6eccd050e789480677e4d694, I now lead with `MediaStreamTrack`.

[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) object representing a
flux of audio- or video-related data. `MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output.
A `MediaStream` object generated by

> [`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is

Author: There _are_ other ways to get a `MediaStream`, see the local vs. remote bit.

> called local, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A non-local

Author: A local stream is something that comes from your webcam. A remote stream (non-local) stream is a stream originating from a different computer.

> `MediaStream` may be representing to a media element, like `<video>` or `<audio>`, a stream

Author: Added the bullet list. `MediaSource` receives [`SourceBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SourceBuffer) objects, which are distinct from media streams.

originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC
[`RTCPeerConnection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection) API, or a
stream created using the Web Audio API
[`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode).

A `MediaStream` consists of zero or more
[`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack) objects,
representing various audio or video tracks. Each `MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels.
The channel represents the smallest unit of a media stream, such as an audio signal associated with
a given speaker, like left or right in a stereo audio track.

## What is insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`?

The core idea for insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is to expose the content of a
`MediaStreamTrack` as a collection of [streams](/streams/) (as defined by the WHATWG
[Streams API](https://streams.spec.whatwg.org/)), which can be manipulated to introduce new

> components.

Author: Split in two.

| Step                                     | Status                   |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [In Progress][spec]      |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| 4. Origin trial                          | Not started              |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`

### Enabling via chrome://flags

To experiment with insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Feature detection

You can feature-detect insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` support as follows.

```js
if ('MediaStreamTrackProcessor' in window && 'MediaStreamTrackGenerator' in window) {
  // Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is supported.
}
```

### Core concepts

Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` objects conceptually splits the `MediaStreamTrack` into
two components:

> - The `TrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates a stream

Reviewer: I can't find `TrackProcessor`. I did find `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`. Is this misnamed?

  of media frames ([`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)). You can think of this as a
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track to a `ReadableStream`
  and that exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.
- The `TrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a `MediaStreamTrack`

>   interface, so that it can be used anywhere a `MediaStreamTrack` is currently attached. It takes

Reviewer: Currently attached to what?

Author: A sink. Added for clarity.

  video frames as input, and emits control signals that result from subsequent processing.

#### The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`

A `MediaStreamTrackProcessor` object exposes two properties:

> - `readable`: Allows reading the frames flowing through the `MediaStreamTrack`. If the track is a

Reviewer: The `readable` property sounds like it should be a boolean, but it's not?

Author: It’s a `readable` stream, as in web.dev/streams/, not meant as `isReadable`.

  video track, chunks read from `readable` will be `VideoFrame` objects. If the track is an audio

>   track, chunks read from `readable` will produce `AudioFrame` objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  track, chunks read from `readable` will be `AudioFrame` objects.
```

- `writableControl`: Allows sending control signals to the track. Control signals are objects of
  type `MediaStreamTrackSignal`.

#### The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`

A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` object likewise exposes two properties:

- `writable`: A `WritableStream` that allows writing media frames to the
  `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which is itself a `MediaStreamTrack`. If the `kind` attribute is

>   `"audio"`, the stream will accept `AudioFrame` objects and fail with any other type. If kind is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `"audio"`, the stream accepts `AudioFrame` objects and fails with any other type. If kind is
```

>   `"video"`, the stream will accept `VideoFrame` objects and fail with any other type. When a frame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `"video"`, the stream accepts `VideoFrame` objects and fails with any other type. When a frame
```

  is written to `writable`, the frame's `close()` method is automatically invoked, so that its
  internal resources are no longer accessible from JavaScript.
- `readableControl`: A `ReadableStream` that allows reading control signals sent from any sinks
  connected to the `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`. Control signals are objects of type
  `MediaStreamTrackSignal`.

In the `MediaStream` model, apart from media, which flows from sources to sinks, there are also
control signals that flow in the opposite direction (i.e., from sinks to sources via the track). A
`MediaStreamTrackProcessor` is a sink and it allows sending control signals to its track and source

> via its `writableControl` field. A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` is a track for which a custom source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via its `writableControl` property. A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` is a track for which a custom source
```

can be implemented by writing media frames to its `writable` field. Such a source can receive

> control signals sent by sinks via its `readableControl` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control signals sent by sinks via its `readableControl` property.
```

### Bringing it all together

The core idea is to create a processing chain as follows:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

> Platform Track → Processor → Transform → Generator → Platform Sinks

Reviewer: Why not use actual obect/property names?

Author: It’s meant to convey the basic mechanics using pseudo-code-like names.

```

For a barcode scanner application, this chain would look as in the code sample below.

```js
const stream = await getUserMedia({ video: true });
const videoTrack = stream.getVideoTracks()[0];

const trackProcessor = new TrackProcessor(videoTrack);
const trackGenerator = new TrackGenerator();

const transformer = new TransformStream({
  async transform(videoFrame, controller) {
    const barcodes = detectBarcodes(videoFrame);
    const newFrame = highlightBarcodes(videoFrame.data, barcodes);
    videoFrame.close();
    controller.enqueue(newFrame);
  },
});

trackProcessor.readable.pipeThrough(transformer).pipeTo(trackGenerator.writable);

trackGenerator.readableControl.pipeTo(trackProcessor.writableControl);
```

{% Aside %} This article barely scratches the surface of what is possible and going into the details

> is way beyond the scope of this publication. For more examples, I refer you to the advanced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is way beyond the scope of this publication. For more examples, see the advanced
```

respectively. You can find the source code for both demos
[on GitHub](https://github.com/webrtc/samples/tree/gh-pages/src/content/insertable-streams).
{% endAside %}

## Demo

You can see the [QR code scanner demo](https://mediastreamtrack.glitch.me/) from the section above
in action on a desktop or mobile browser. Hold a QR code in front of the camera and the app will
detect it and highlight it. You can see the application's source code
[on Glitch](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/mediastreamtrack?path=index.html%3A21%3A50).

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/VwysZHgnzswePs684xOJ.png", alt="QR code scanner running in desktop browser tab showing a detected and highlighted QR code on the phone the user holds in front of the laptop's camera.", width="800", height="481" %}

## Security and Privacy considerations

The security of this API relies on existing mechanisms in the web platform. As data is exposed using
the `VideoFrame` and `AudioFrame` interfaces, the rules of those interfaces to deal with
origin-tainted data apply. For example, data from cross-origin resources cannot be accessed due to

> existing restrictions to access such resources (e.g., it is not possible to access the pixels of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
existing restrictions on accerssinbg such resources (e.g., it is not possible to access the pixels of a
```

> cross-origin image or video element). In addition to this, access to media data from cameras,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cross-origin image or video element). In addition, access to media data from cameras,
```

> microphones, or the screen is subject to user authorization. The media data this API exposes is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
microphones, or screens is subject to user authorization. The media data this API exposes is
```

already available through other APIs. In addition to the media data, this API exposes some control
signals such as requests for new frames. These signals are intended as hints and do not pose a
significant security risk.

## Feedback

The Chromium team wants to hear about your experiences with insertable streams for
`MediaStreamTrack`.

### Tell us about the API design

Is there something about the API that does not work like you expected? Or are there missing methods

> or properties that you need to implement your idea? Have a question or comment on the security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or properties that you need to implement your idea? Do you have a question or comment on the security
```

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the
[capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will
be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

In the context of the
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
the [`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack)
interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist as well.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output. A `MediaStream` object generated by
[`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is

> called a local `MediaStream`, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones. A remote
> `MediaStream` may be representing to a media element, like `<video>` or `<audio>`, a stream
> originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC
> [`RTCPeerConnection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection) API, or a
> stream created using the Web Audio API
> [`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode).

Author: ```suggestion
called a local `MediaStream`, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones.
A remote `MediaStream` may be representing to the following outputs:

- A media element, like `<video>` or `<audio>`
- A stream originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC
  [`RTCPeerConnection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection) API
- A stream created using the Web Audio API
  [`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode)
```

interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist as well.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output. A `MediaStream` object generated by
[`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is
called a local `MediaStream`, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones.
A remote `MediaStream` may be representing to the following outputs:

- A media element, like `<video>` or `<audio>`
- A stream originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC
  [`RTCPeerConnection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection) API
- A stream created using the Web Audio API

>   [`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode)

Author: It looks good to me!

## What is insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`?

> The core idea for insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is to expose the content of a

Reviewer: This just sounds more natural to my Anglophone ears.

`MediaStreamTrack` as a collection of [streams](/streams/) (as defined by the WHATWG
[Streams API](https://streams.spec.whatwg.org/)). These streams can be manipulated to introduce new
components.

Granting developers access to the video (or audio) stream directly allows them to apply modifications

> directly to the stream, rather than, for example, for the case of video manipulation,
> force them to go through intermediates like `<canvas>` objects, as outlined in this
> multi-step [article](https://html5doctor.com/video-canvas-magic/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly to the stream. This is in contrast to something like video
manipulation, which forces use of intermediaries such as `<canvas>` elements.
(For details of this type of process, see [video + canvas =
magic](https://html5doctor.com/video-canvas-magic/).)
```

Reviewer: There was a lot to take in from this sentence. I took a shot a making it more digestible.

Author: I modified this slightly to convey the original idea closer.

| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [In Progress][spec]      |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| 4. Origin trial                          | Not started              |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`

### Enabling via chrome://flags

To experiment with insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Feature detection

You can feature-detect insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` support as follows.

```js
if ('MediaStreamTrackProcessor' in window && 'MediaStreamTrackGenerator' in window) {
  // Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is supported.
}
```

### Core concepts

Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` builds on concepts previously proposed by
[WebCodecs](https://web.dev/webcodecs/) and conceptually splits the `MediaStreamTrack` into two
components:

- The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates a stream

>   of media frames ([`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
>   [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)). You can think of this as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  of media frames, specifically [`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)) objects. You can think of this as a
```

---
layout: post
title: Insertable streams for MediaStreamTrack
subhead: |

>   The contents of MediaStreamTrack objects are exposed as a collection of streams so they can be manipulated
>   to introduce new components.

Author: ```suggestion
  The content of a `MediaStreamTrack` is exposed as a stream that can be manipulated or used to
  generate new content.
```

>   to introduce new components.

Author: So be it :-)

authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2021-05-03
description: |

>   Insertable streams for MediaStreamTrack expose the contents of a MediaStreamTrack as a collection
>   of streams, which can be manipulated to introduce new
>   components.

Author: ```suggestion
  Insertable streams for MediaStreamTrack is about exposing the content of a MediaStreamTrack
  as a stream that can be manipulated or used to generate new content.
```

>   components.

Author: Same as above.

hero: image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/Qu2wfQ3pxR8AeEfty88S.jpg
alt: Cup of coffee and a laptop with a video conference showing many participants.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - media
  - capabilities
---

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the

> [capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will

Author: It's just our boilerplate. When the OT ends, the article will be updated, etc.

be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

In the context of the
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
the [`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack)
interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

`MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output. A `MediaStream` object generated by
[`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is
called a local `MediaStream`, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones.

> A remote `MediaStream` may be represented by the following outputs:

Author: @alvestrand wanted to get rid of `MediaStream` mentions anyways, so if you say the distinction doesn't matter anyways, let's just kill the entire paragraph.

components.

Granting developers access to the video (or audio) stream directly allows them to apply modifications
directly to the stream. In contrast, realizing the same video manipulation task with traditional methods
requires developers to use intermediaries such as `<canvas>` elements.
(For details of this type of process, see, for example,
[video + canvas = magic](https://html5doctor.com/video-canvas-magic/).)

## Use cases

Use cases for insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` include, but are not limited to:

- Video conferencing gadgets like "funny hats" or virtual backgrounds.
- Voice processing like software [vocoders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vocoder).

## Current status {: #status }

<div class="w-table-wrapper">

| Step                                     | Status                   |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [In Progress][spec]      |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |

> | 4. Origin trial                          | Not started              |

Author: ```suggestion
| 4. **Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**         |
```

> | 4. Origin trial                          | Not started              |

Author: I wasn't aware those were running together. Thanks!

| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`

### Enabling via chrome://flags

To experiment with insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Feature detection

You can feature-detect insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` support as follows.

```js
if ('MediaStreamTrackProcessor' in window && 'MediaStreamTrackGenerator' in window) {
  // Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is supported.
}
```

### Core concepts

Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` builds on concepts previously proposed by
[WebCodecs](https://web.dev/webcodecs/) and conceptually splits the `MediaStreamTrack` into two
components:

- The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates a stream
  of media frames, specifically [`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)) objects. You can think of this as a

>   track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track to a `ReadableStream`

Author: ```suggestion
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a `ReadableStream`
```

>   track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track to a `ReadableStream`

Author: Sure.

>   track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a `ReadableStream`
>   and that exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.

Author: ```suggestion
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a `ReadableStream`.
  It also exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.
```

>   and that exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.

Author: ```suggestion
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track to a `ReadableStream`.
  It also exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.
```

>   and that exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.

Author: Done.

>   interface, so that it can be used in any sink a `MediaStreamTrack` is currently attached to. It takes

Author: ```suggestion
  interface, so that it can be used in any sink a `MediaStreamTrack` interface.
  The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` can be provided to any sink, just like a track from `getUserMedia()`.
  It takes
```

>   interface, so that it can be used in any sink a `MediaStreamTrack` is currently attached to. It takes

Author: OK, done.

>   video frames as input, and emits control signals that result from subsequent processing.

Author: ```suggestion
  media frames as input. In addition, it provides access to control signals that are generated by the sink.
```

>   video frames as input, and emits control signals that result from subsequent processing.

Author: Done.

>   video frames as input, and emits control signals that result from subsequent processing.

Author: Done.

#### The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`

A `MediaStreamTrackProcessor` object exposes two properties:

> - `readable`: Allows reading the frames flowing through the `MediaStreamTrack`. If the track is a

Author: ```suggestion
- `readable`: Allows reading the frames from the `MediaStreamTrack`. If the track is a
```

> - `readable`: Allows reading the frames flowing through the `MediaStreamTrack`. If the track is a

Author: Then be it bland :-)

  track, chunks read from `readable` will be `AudioFrame` objects.
- `writableControl`: Allows sending control signals to the track. Control signals are objects of
  type `MediaStreamTrackSignal`.

#### The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`

A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` object likewise exposes two properties:

- `writable`: A `WritableStream` that allows writing media frames to the
  `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which is itself a `MediaStreamTrack`. If the `kind` attribute is
  `"audio"`, the stream accepts `AudioFrame` objects and fails with any other type. If kind is
  `"video"`, the stream accepts `VideoFrame` objects and fails with any other type. When a frame

>   is written to `writable`, the frame's `close()` method is automatically invoked, so that its
>   internal resources are no longer accessible from JavaScript.

Author: ```suggestion
  is written to `writable`, the frame's `close()` method is automatically invoked, so that its
  media resources are no longer accessible from JavaScript.
```

>   internal resources are no longer accessible from JavaScript.

Author: Done.

- `readableControl`: A `ReadableStream` that allows reading control signals sent from any sinks
  connected to the `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`. Control signals are objects of type
  `MediaStreamTrackSignal`.

In the `MediaStream` model, apart from media, which flows from sources to sinks, there are also
control signals that flow in the opposite direction (i.e., from sinks to sources via the track). A
`MediaStreamTrackProcessor` is a sink and it allows sending control signals to its track and source
via its `writableControl` property. A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` is a track for which a custom source
can be implemented by writing media frames to its `writable` field. Such a source can receive
control signals sent by sinks via its `readableControl` property.

### Bringing it all together

The core idea is to create a processing chain as follows:

Platform Track → Processor → Transform → Generator → Platform Sinks

For a barcode scanner application, this chain would look as in the code sample below.

```js
const stream = await getUserMedia({ video: true });
const videoTrack = stream.getVideoTracks()[0];

const trackProcessor = new MediaStreamTrackProcessor(videoTrack);

> const trackGenerator = new MediaStreamTrackGenerator();

Author: See https://github.com/w3c/mediacapture-transform/pull/32 :-)

const transformer = new TransformStream({
  async transform(videoFrame, controller) {
    const barcodes = await detectBarcodes(videoFrame);
    const newFrame = highlightBarcodes(videoFrame, barcodes);
    videoFrame.close();
    controller.enqueue(newFrame);
  },
});

trackProcessor.readable.pipeThrough(transformer).pipeTo(trackGenerator.writable);

trackGenerator.readableControl.pipeTo(trackProcessor.writableControl);
```

{% Aside %} This article barely scratches the surface of what is possible and going into the details

> is way beyond the scope of this publication. For more examples, see the advanced

Author: Extended then at least :-)

> is way beyond the scope of this publication. For more examples, see the advanced
> [video processing demo](https://webrtc.github.io/samples/src/content/insertable-streams/video-processing/)

Author: ```suggestion
is way beyond the scope of this publication. For more examples, see the extended
[video processing demo](https://webrtc.github.io/samples/src/content/insertable-streams/video-processing/)
```

> and the advanced

Author: ```suggestion
and the
```

and the advanced
[audio processing demo](https://webrtc.github.io/samples/src/content/insertable-streams/audio-processing/)
respectively. You can find the source code for both demos
[on GitHub](https://github.com/webrtc/samples/tree/gh-pages/src/content/insertable-streams).
{% endAside %}

## Demo

> You can see the [QR code scanner demo](https://mediastreamtrack.glitch.me/) from the section above

Reviewer 4: Cool! Unfortunately I'm just getting an error "Barcode detection service unavailable."

Author: Yeah, limited support is the biggest constraint of the Shape Detection API, see the [supported platforms](https://web.dev/shape-detection/#:~:text=barcode%20detection%20is%20available%20on%20macos%2C%20chrome%20os%2C%20and%20android.%20google%20play%20services%20are%20required%20on%20android.) for details. (I make sure the app reports this more constructively.)

Reviewer 4: Awesome! It works!

Author: Yay! If you are good with everything else, please LGTM, and we can ship this live.

in action on a desktop or mobile browser. Hold a QR code in front of the camera and the app will
detect it and highlight it. You can see the application's source code

> [on Glitch](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/mediastreamtrack?path=index.html%3A21%3A50).

Reviewer 4: One comment on the linked Glitch (sorry, if there's a way to comment there, I don't see it): You're setting up the canvas state in the loadedmetadata event handler on video; however, that video element is playing the output video, not the input video, so that doesn't make much sense. It seems better to set up the canvas just after obtaining videoTrack by looking at videoTrack.getSettings() to get the width and height.

Maybe also move the loadedmetadata handler to the line after setting srcObject.

Author: Demo fixed accordingly.

or properties that you need to implement your idea? Do you have a question or comment on the security
model? File a spec issue on the corresponding [GitHub repo][github], or add your thoughts to an
existing issue.

### Report a problem with the implementation

Did you find a bug with Chromium's implementation? Or is the implementation different from the spec?
File a bug at [new.crbug.com](https://new.crbug.com). Be sure to include as much detail as you can,
simple instructions for reproducing, and enter `Blink>MediaStream` in the **Components** box.
[Glitch](https://glitch.com/) works great for sharing quick and easy repros.

### Show support for the API

Are you planning to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`? Your public support helps the
Chromium team prioritize features and shows other browser vendors how critical it is to support
them.

Send a tweet to [@ChromiumDev][cr-dev-twitter] using the hashtag
[`#InsertableStreams`](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23InsertableStreams&src=recent_search_click&f=live)
and let us know where and how you are using it.

## Helpful links

- [Spec draft][spec]
- [Explainer][explainer]

> - [ChromeStatus](https://chromestatus.com/features/5499415634640896)

Author: ```suggestion
- [ChromeStatus](https://chromestatus.com/feature/5499415634640896)
```

> - [ChromeStatus](https://chromestatus.com/features/5499415634640896)

Reviewer 4: I think this link has a typo: s/features/feature/

Author: Thanks!

- [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/1142955)
- [TAG review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/603)
- [GitHub repo][github]

## Acknowledgements

The insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` spec was written by
[Harald Alvestrand](https://github.com/alvestrand) and [Guido Urdaneta](https://github.com/guidou).
This article was reviewed by Harald Alvestrand, [Joe Medley](https://github/com/jpmedley),
[Huib Kleinhout](https://github.com/huibk), and
[François Beaufort](https://github.com/beaufortfrancois). Hero image by
[Chris Montgomery](https://unsplash.com/@cwmonty) on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/smgTvepind4).

[spec]: https://w3c.github.io/mediacapture-transform/
[explainer]: https://github.com/w3c/mediacapture-transform/blob/main/explainer.md
[github]: https://github.com/w3c/mediacapture-transform/

> [cr-dev-twitter]: https://twitter.com/ChromiumDev

Author: ```suggestion
[cr-dev-twitter]: https://twitter.com/ChromiumDev
[ot]: https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/-7811493553674125311
```

  media resources are no longer accessible from JavaScript.
- `readableControl`: A `ReadableStream` that allows reading control signals sent from any sinks
  connected to the `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`. Control signals are objects of type
  `MediaStreamTrackSignal`.

In the `MediaStream` model, apart from media, which flows from sources to sinks, there are also
control signals that flow in the opposite direction (i.e., from sinks to sources via the track). A
`MediaStreamTrackProcessor` is a sink and it allows sending control signals to its track and source
via its `writableControl` property. A `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` is a track for which a custom source
can be implemented by writing media frames to its `writable` field. Such a source can receive
control signals sent by sinks via its `readableControl` property.

### Bringing it all together

The core idea is to create a processing chain as follows:

Platform Track → Processor → Transform → Generator → Platform Sinks

For a barcode scanner application, this chain would look as in the code sample below.

```js
const stream = await getUserMedia({ video: true });
const videoTrack = stream.getVideoTracks()[0];

> const trackProcessor = new MediaStreamTrackProcessor(videoTrack);
> const trackGenerator = new MediaStreamTrackGenerator();

Author: ```suggestion
const trackProcessor = new MediaStreamTrackProcessor({track: videoTrack});
const trackGenerator = new MediaStreamTrackGenerator({kind: 'video'});
```

simple instructions for reproducing, and enter `Blink>MediaStream` in the **Components** box.
[Glitch](https://glitch.com/) works great for sharing quick and easy repros.

### Show support for the API

Are you planning to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`? Your public support helps the
Chromium team prioritize features and shows other browser vendors how critical it is to support
them.

Send a tweet to [@ChromiumDev][cr-dev-twitter] using the hashtag
[`#InsertableStreams`](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23InsertableStreams&src=recent_search_click&f=live)
and let us know where and how you are using it.

## Helpful links

- [Spec draft][spec]
- [Explainer][explainer]
- [ChromeStatus](https://chromestatus.com/feature/5499415634640896)
- [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/1142955)
- [TAG review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/603)
- [GitHub repo][github]

## Acknowledgements

The insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` spec was written by
[Harald Alvestrand](https://github.com/alvestrand) and [Guido Urdaneta](https://github.com/guidou).
This article was reviewed by Harald Alvestrand, [Joe Medley](https://github/com/jpmedley),

> [Huib Kleinhout](https://github.com/huibk), and

Author: ```suggestion
[Ben Wagner](https://github.com/dogben),
[Huib Kleinhout](https://github.com/huibk), and
```

alt: Cup of coffee and a laptop with a video conference showing many participants.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - media
  - capabilities
---

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the
[capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will
be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

In the context of the
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
the [`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack)
interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

requires developers to use intermediaries such as `<canvas>` elements.
(For details of this type of process, see, for example,
[video + canvas = magic](https://html5doctor.com/video-canvas-magic/).)

## Use cases

Use cases for insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` include, but are not limited to:

- Video conferencing gadgets like "funny hats" or virtual backgrounds.
- Voice processing like software [vocoders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vocoder).

## Current status {: #status }

<div class="w-table-wrapper">

| Step                                     | Status                   |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [In Progress][spec]      |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| 4. **Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**    |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

> Starting in Chrome 86, insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` will be available as an origin trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome 91 (July 14, 2021).

Author: ```suggestion
Starting in Chrome 88, insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is available as part of the WebCodecs origin trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome 91 (July 14, 2021). 
If necessary, a separate origin trial will continue for insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`.
```

| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| 4. **Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**    |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

Starting in Chrome 86, insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` will be available as an origin trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome 91 (July 14, 2021).

{% include 'content/origin-trials.njk' %}

### Register for the origin trial {: #register-for-ot }

{% include 'content/origin-trial-register.njk' %}

```

To experiment with insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Feature detection

You can feature-detect insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` support as follows.

```js
if ('MediaStreamTrackProcessor' in window && 'MediaStreamTrackGenerator' in window) {
  // Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is supported.
}
```

### Core concepts

Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` builds on concepts previously proposed by
[WebCodecs](https://web.dev/webcodecs/) and conceptually splits the `MediaStreamTrack` into two
components:

- The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates a stream
  of media frames, specifically [`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)) objects. You can think of this as a
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a `ReadableStream`.
  It also exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.

> - The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a
>    `MediaStreamTrack` interface. The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` can be provided to any sink,

Author: ```suggestion
- The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a
   `MediaStreamTrack` interface. It can be provided to any sink,
```

To experiment with insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Feature detection

You can feature-detect insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` support as follows.

```js
if ('MediaStreamTrackProcessor' in window && 'MediaStreamTrackGenerator' in window) {
  // Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is supported.
}
```

### Core concepts

Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` builds on concepts previously proposed by
[WebCodecs](https://web.dev/webcodecs/) and conceptually splits the `MediaStreamTrack` into two
components:

- The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates
  a stream of media frames, specifically
  [`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)) objects. You can think of
  this as a track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a
  `ReadableStream`. It also exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.

> - The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a `MediaStreamTrack`

Author: ```suggestion
- The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a `MediaStreamTrack`
```

> - The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a `MediaStreamTrack`
>   interface, so that it can be used in any sink a `MediaStreamTrack` interface.
>   The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` can be provided to any sink, just like a track from `getUserMedia()`.
>   It takes
>   media frames as input. In addition, it provides access to control signals that are generated by the sink.

Author: ```suggestion
- The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a
   `MediaStreamTrack` interface. The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` can be provided to any sink,
   just like a track from `getUserMedia()`. It takes media frames as input. In addition, it provides
   access to control signals that are generated by the sink.
```

---
layout: post
title: Insertable streams for MediaStreamTrack
subhead: |
  The content of a `MediaStreamTrack` is exposed as a stream that can be manipulated or used to
  generate new content.
authors:
  - thomassteiner

> date: 2021-05-03

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2021-05-04
```

alt: Cup of coffee and a laptop with a video conference showing many participants.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - media
  - capabilities
---

{% Aside %} Insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` is part of the
[capabilities project](https://web.dev/fugu-status/) and is currently in development. This post will
be updated as the implementation progresses. {% endAside %}

## Background

In the context of the
[Media Capture and Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Media_Streams_API)
the [`MediaStreamTrack`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamTrack)
interface represents a single media track within a stream; typically, these are audio or video
tracks, but other track types may exist.
[`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) objects consist of
zero or more `MediaStreamTrack` objects, representing various audio or video tracks. Each
`MediaStreamTrack` may have one or more channels. The channel represents the smallest unit of a
media stream, such as an audio signal associated with a given speaker, like left or right in a
stereo audio track.

> `MediaStream` objects have a single input and a single output. A `MediaStream` object generated by
> [`getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia) is
> called a local `MediaStream`, and has as its source input one of the user's cameras or microphones.
> A remote `MediaStream` may be represented by the following outputs:
> 
> - A media element, like `<video>` or `<audio>`

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - A stream originating over the network, and obtained via the WebRTC
>   [`RTCPeerConnection`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection) interface
> - A stream created using the Web Audio API
>   [`MediaStreamAudioSourceNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode)

Author: ```suggestion
```

| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [In Progress][spec]      |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| 4. **Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**    |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack`

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

> Starting in Chrome 86, insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` will be available as an origin trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome 91 (July 14, 2021).

Reviewer 4: FWIW, the new API wasn't added until Chrome 88. It has also changed a bit since 88.

Reviewer 5: the origin trial started in 90. It is "expected" to end in 91 because it is currently included in the WebCodecs trial which ll end in 91. If necessary, a separate trial will continue for this feature.

Author: Gotcha. I wasn't aware the two were running together, especially since the WebCodecs one started earlier (and apparently before insertable streams landed). But since insertable streams uses video frames etc., it makes sense of course to bundle them.

- The `MediaStreamTrackProcessor`, which consumes a `MediaStreamTrack` object's source and generates a stream
  of media frames, specifically [`VideoFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#videoframe-interface) or
  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)) objects. You can think of this as a
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a `ReadableStream`.
  It also exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.
- The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a `MediaStreamTrack`

>   interface, so that it can be used in any sink a `MediaStreamTrack` interface.

Reviewer 4: copy/pasta or editing issue?

Author: Looks like an outdated review comment was used as the basis for a new one. GitHub sometimes does this. PTAL now.

  [`AudioFrame`](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/#audioframe-interface)) objects. You can think of this as a
  track sink that is capable of exposing the unencoded frames from the track as a `ReadableStream`.
  It also exposes a control channel for signals going in the opposite direction.
- The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator`, which consumes a stream of media frames and exposes a

>    `MediaStreamTrack` interface. The `MediaStreamTrackGenerator` can be provided to any sink,

Reviewer 4: nitpick: This doesn't seem like a complete sentence.

Reviewer 4: Ah, my apologies, that's intentional.

Author: Boy, this got butchered badly. Hope it's finally fixed.

Author: Yeah, I also just noticed (and fixed it again). Caught the identical beginning of the two sentences, though, so good that we both had a double eye on it.

The insertable streams for `MediaStreamTrack` spec was written by
[Harald Alvestrand](https://github.com/alvestrand) and [Guido Urdaneta](https://github.com/guidou).
This article was reviewed by Harald Alvestrand, [Joe Medley](https://github/com/jpmedley),
[Ben Wagner](https://github.com/dogben),

> [Huib Kleinhout](https://github.com/huibk), and

Reviewer 4: Intentionally removed?
